Pm 2.0 ga2 kim edits (#66)
mulesoft/docs-partner-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/manage-message-flows.adoc

= Manage Message Flows
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> After your message flow is running and you are using it with your partners, you should not have to change it much.

Reviewer: Just a SUGGESTION for minimalism:
```suggestion
After confirming that your partner message flow is successful, you need not change it unless any of the following occurs:
```
Otherwise, the existing text is just fine.

Reviewer: HOWEVER...please look at this intro text and see if it needs rewording regarding "change" and the text that implies deletion...which is not strictly speaking a change....

Author: Fixed.

> There are certain cases where you might need to make changes, for example:

Reviewer: See above.
If you do not change the text, then this:
```suggestion
However, you might need to change or even delete the flow in the following circumstances:
```

> * You are no longer trading with a particular partner and need to delete the message flow you created for them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You are no longer trading with a particular partner.
```

Author: keep.

> * You completed the testing for a deployed message flow in a pre-production environment, and now want to reclaim those previously allocated Mule runtime resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You completed testing for a subsequently deployed flow and want to reclaim the Mule resources used for testing.
```
Please verify that I have not inadvertently changed your intended meaning.

Author: keep

* You want to update the DataWeave map.

> After a message flow is deployed, you can edit it, or undeploy and delete it.

Reviewer: Omit; redundant...although as mentioned above, you might need to add deletion to the text about changes....
```suggestion
```

> == Edit Message Flows

Reviewer: Now that I see this task, I wonder if the topic set intro is not misleading. 

The intro to THIS task gives me the impression that there are some pretty good reasons to change a message flow, other than the deletion examples.

I don't want to take over your doc, so I won't suggest wording for a topic set intro, but I do suggest that you look again and see if the existing one prepares the audience for both of these tasks.

Author: Reworded.

> You can make changes to a message flow such adding identifiers, selecting different endpoints, or importing a different DataWeave map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change your message flow if you want to add identifiers, select different endpoints, or import a different DataWeave map.
```
If there are lots of other potential changes, tweak this to "...if you want to do things like add...."

Author: Fixed.

> Overview of the steps include:

Reviewer: I suggest deleting the entire introduction to the Edit topic steps.

This overview of steps looks like it applies to making ALL of the changes listed above, which I read to be separate goals. 

Also, an overview of steps implies a chronology, which is not indicated by the use here of bullets instead of numbers.

SO...given that we have a topic set intro (which might need clarifying regarding changes vs. deletions/undeployment), I suggest a simple whole-topic reorg something like this:

Manage Message Flows

After you establish a successful message flow with your partners, you can edit the flow to add identifiers, change endpoints and message types, add or change DataWeave maps, and so on. Before you make changes, carefully consider the impact to your existing message flow.

You can also undeploy or delete message flows entirely if your partner relationships change or you want to reclaim Mule resources used for testing.

I would then just launch straight in to the Edit topic, followed by the Undeploy and Delete topics. 

*****
An alternative is to shorten the topic set intro to something as brief as... 

"After establishing a successful message flow with your partners, you must manage it to ensure that meets the changing needs of your partner relationship. This might involve editing, undeploying, or even deleting the deployed message flow." 

Then you can move straight into Edit, including a narrative intro that includes when/why you might want or need to edit, followed by Undeploy and Delete topics that include the same.

Reviewer: The remainder of the edit for this .adoc file is copyediting only, given the suggestion above, should you decide you don't agree or don't have time.

Author: Fixed.

> * Change receiving endpoints, certificates and delete non AS2 Identifiers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Change receiving endpoints and certificates, and delete non-AS2 identifiers.
```

* Change associated message types (X12 or JSON) and acknowledgments.

* Upload different DataWeave maps.

> * Change associated target message types (X12 or JSON) and endpoints.

Reviewer: This looks like a slightly different repetition of the second bullet item; please doublecheck.

Author: checked.

> You change any of these by opening an existing message flow and edit in the sections you intend to modify. Consider that modifying identifiers impacts deployed message flows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You change any of these by opening an existing message flow and editing the sections you intend to modify. Consider that modifying identifiers impacts deployed message flows.
```
Is there more to say about this impact?

> When you are done with your changes, redeploy the message flow to ensure that the changes are propagated to the Mule applications on your Mule runtime.

Reviewer: This belongs at the end of the task steps.
```suggestion
When you are done with your changes, redeploy the message flow to ensure that the changes are propagated to the Mule applications.
```

Author: REmoved.

> . From within your Anypoint Partner Manager environment (either Sandbox or Production), click *Message Flows* in the upper left and select a message flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. From within your Anypoint Partner Manager sandbox or production environment, click *Message Flows* in the upper left and select a message flow.
```
Earlier text implied that you go into your deployed (production) flow. Do we need to clarify earlier that you can edit either in sandbox or production, and the pros and cons of each?

> . Choose the message flow click *<Message flow name>* to expand it.

Reviewer: Please reread.
This sentence is not grammatical; it also looks like an alternative to the previous step?

Author: Fixed.

> . If you want to add an identifier to the message flow, click *See All* and then *New*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If you want to add an identifier to the message flow, click *See All* > *New*.
```

> . If you want to change a receiving endpoint, click *Select* from the *Receiving endpoint* section, click *New* and select your protocol type: AS2 or SFTP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If you want to change a receiving endpoint, click *Select* from the *Receiving endpoint* section, click *New*, and select protocol type AS2 or SFTP.
```

Author: Fixed.

> . If you want to create a new endpoint, depending on the protocol, refer to the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If you want to create a new endpoint, refer to one of the following:
```

Author: Fixed.

+
* xref:endpoint-as2-receive.adoc[AS2 Endpoint Settings]

* xref:endpoint-sftp-receive-target.adoc[SFTP Receive Endpoint Settings]

> . If you want to change a DataWeave map, click *Import* from the Map section to choose a different DataWeave map and click *Upload mapping*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If you want to change a DataWeave map, click *Import* from the Map section, select the DataWeave map, and click *Upload mapping*.
```
Please doublecheck for tech accuracy.

Author: checked.

> . If you want to add a message type, click *Select* under the Source message, select *New* and select a standard type such as X12 or JSON.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If you want to add a message type, click *Select* under the Source message, select *New*, and select a standard type such as X12 or JSON.
Refer to xref:document-types.adoc[X12 and JSON Message Types].
```

Author: fixed.

. For a new message type, depending on the message standard, refer to the following:
+

> * xref:document-types.adoc[X12 and JSON Message Types]

Reviewer: omit, per previous

Author: Fixed.

.   If you want to set up a target endpoint click *Select* from the Target at <partner name>.
+

> * To create a new endpoint, depending on the protocol, refer to the following:

Reviewer: These are redundant and unclear: is the user setting up a(n existing) target endpoint or creating a new (target) endpoint? 
Change this to one step, with a subordinate sentence that is the crossrefs.

Author: Fixed.

* xref:endpoint-sftp-receive-target.adoc[SFTP Receive Endpoint Settings]

* xref:endpoint-https-send.adoc[HTTP and HTTPS Send Configuration]

> . After you update any of the source, map, and target sections in the interface, confirm that each shows a green check mark next to it in the flow, and click *Deploy* to deploy the configurations to your Mule Runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that any sections of the flow that you updated show a green checkmark in the interface, and click *Deploy* to deploy the configurations to Mule.
Synchronization takes about five minutes.
```

Author: Fixed.

+
NOTE: It may take five minutes or so for your configuration changes to sync with Mule runtime.

> +

Reviewer: omit

> . To test your edited message flow, refer to xref:configure-message-flows.adoc[Configure Message Flows].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Test your edited message flow.
See xref:configure-message-flows.adoc[Configure Message Flows].
```

Author: Fixed.

> Once you confirm successful deployment of your message flow, you can track its processed messages from the Activity page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you confirm successful deployment of your message flow, you can track its processed messages from the Activity page.
```

Author: fixed

== Undeploy Message Flows

> 

Reviewer: Please refer to the reorg suggestion. 

It looks like this subtask already has an independent intro, so the second reorg alternative might be easier to implement.

However, this independent intro sort of wanders about from point to point without an obvious narrative flow (chronological or other hierarchy). 

Try to remove text that belongs in the steps or following completion of the task, and focus on what the audience really NEEDS before proceeding to Step 1.

I'm going to make my own attempt, but you might have a better one!

Reviewer: Undeploying a message flow is a prerequisite to deleting it. Undeployment stops future messages from being processed and enables you to recover resources being consumed by a message flow that you no longer need: for example, if your relationship with your partner changes.

You can undeploy your message flow from either a sandbox or a production environment. <discussion of the case for each?> 

Before you undeploy a message flow, you must:

* Ensure that your on-premise Mule instances, the servers hosting them, and the `B2BserverGroup` are active and running by contacting your B2B System Administrator or checking the status of the server in Anypoint Runtime Manager (see https://docs.mulesoft.com/runtime-manager/servers-settings[Server Settings]).

* Understand that the process takes about five minutes, during which actions such as `Deploy` and `Delete` are unavailable.

. From within your sandbox or production Anypoint Partner Manager environment, click *Message Flows* in the upper left and select a message flow.

... continue with steps below

Reviewer: Based on the above, I suggest omitting everything from here to the current Step 3.

Author: Fixed.

You might want to undeploy a message flow so that you can delete it. Other reasons for undeploying a message flow are:

* To stop processing messages related to the deployed message flow configuration.

* To recover resources being consumed by a message flow that you no longer need.

> When you undeploy a message flow, it stops any future messages from being processed by that flow.

Reviewer: Replace per suggestion above.

Author: fixed.

> Undeploying a message flow usually about five minutes. Anypoint Partner Manager checks to see if any of the applications on your Mule runtime are orphaned as a result of the undeployment.

Reviewer: This is after-the-steps info. Move from this location.
```suggestion
```

Author: fixed

These applications are cleaned up to release any resources they may be consuming. You must undeploy a message flow before you delete it.

> Your on-premise Mule runtimes, the servers hosting the runtimes, and the `B2BserverGroup` need to be active and running when attempting an undeployment.

Reviewer: OMIT in favor of suggestion

Author: Fixed/

> If you are unsure, you should contact your B2B System Administrator or check the status of the server in Runtime manager: https://docs.mulesoft.com/runtime-manager/servers-settings[Server Settings].

Reviewer: OMIT in favor of moving to top as prereq, per suggestion.

Author: Fixed.

> IMPORTANT: It may take five minutes or so for your undeployment action to complete.

Reviewer: Move to the beginning per suggestion
```suggestion
```

Author: Fixed.

> During this time, do not log out of Anypoint Partner Manager or close your browser window.

Reviewer: Move to follow the steps
```suggestion
```

Author: fixed

> When an undeployment is in-progress, other actions on the message flow such as `Deploy` and `Delete` are unavailable.

Reviewer: Moved to the beginning; omit
```suggestion
```

> . Make sure the server group in Anypoint Runtime Manager called: B2BServerGroup is running.

Reviewer: OMIT here
Not a step but a prereq; moved to beginning
```suggestion
```

Author: fixed

> . From within your Anypoint Partner Manager environment (either Sandbox or Production), click *Message Flows* in the upper left and select a message flow.

Reviewer: See edit of this step in suggested rewrite and omit this version.
```suggestion
```

Author: fixed

. Click *Undeploy* in the upper right.

> 

Reviewer: Now add the postreq info:

During undeployment processing, do not log out of Anypoint Partner Manager or close your browser window. Anypoint Partner Manager checks to see if any of your Mule applications are orphaned as a result of the undeployment. <and then what happens?>

== Delete Message Flows

> 

Reviewer: This text has the same issues as the text originally introducing Undeploy Message Flows.
Please reorganize it in the same way:
* Define what deletion is 
* Tell why the user wants or needs to do it
* Provide prerequisites to the first actual step

> You might want to delete a message flow when it no longer serves its purpose.

Reviewer: why

> If you delete a message flow before it has been deployed, it does not affect the Mule runtime apps.

Reviewer: Seems unnecessary; otherwise, definition

> If you have a message flow that was deployed and you are attempting to delete it, you must undeploy it first.

Reviewer: prereq

Any previous transmissions that were created as a result of a message being processed via the now-deleted message flow has the following behavior:

* They continue to stay in the transmission records within the Activity page, but the records indicate that the corresponding message flow used to process this transmission is now deleted.

* These activities are converted into read-only mode, so no links to the message flow work.

> * Only links that were set up to the stored payloads (such as the original B2B message, any TA1 acknowledgments, the transformed payload, on so on) continue to work.

Reviewer: definition

IMPORTANT: It may take five minutes or so for an undeployment action to complete.
During this time, do not log out of Anypoint Partner Manager or close your browser window.
When an undeployment is in-progress, `Delete` is unavailable.

. Make sure the server group in Anypoint Runtime Manager called: B2BServerGroup is running.

+
NOTE: If you are unsure, you should contact your B2B System Administrator or check the status of the server in Runtime manager: https://docs.mulesoft.com/runtime-manager/servers-settings[Server Settings].
+

. From within your Anypoint Partner Manager environment (either Sandbox or Production), click *Message Flows* in the upper left and select a message flow.

. Click *Undeploy* in the upper right.

> After the undeployment is successful, delete the message flow by clicking  *Delete* in the upper right.

Reviewer: Reorg all in the same was as for Undeploy
